# Astro
Automated data collection from YouTube.

## Overview
This project is focused on collecting data from YouTube via the Data API.
Currently, this tool will collect comment info from the provided video ID
string, storing the data into an sqlite database file.

The comment data collected includes:
- author
- text
- timestamp

Sentiment analysis is performed on the comment text using the 'nltk' (Natural
Language Toolkit) python library. This data is added to the database entries of
each comment.

## Example
This output below was generated by providing the video ID string of a relatively
small YouTube channel.
```
(astro) $ python astro.py 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HthY7qxV8q0' -l debug
INFO:__init__.py:autodetect: file_cache is only supported with oauth2client<4.0.0
DEBUG:discovery.py:method: URL being requested: GET https://youtube.googleapis.com/youtube/v3/commentThreads?part=snippet%2Creplies&videoId=HthY7qxV8q0&textFormat=plainText&key=<...>&alt=json
DEBUG:astro.py:main: Collected data preview:
                                             comment                user                  date PSentiment NSentiment
0  Giant keys dorp twice as often in the wilderne...      @selkokieli843  2024-09-23T19:06:29Z        0.0       0.25
1  wilderness is the way to go here. cannon isnt ...          @breaddboy  2024-09-23T18:46:20Z        0.0      0.125
2  The description is about mossy keys and Bryoph...            @MrRXY11  2024-09-23T16:49:55Z        0.0        0.0
3  no it's not you're crazy. gaslighting isn't re...           @Spookdog  2024-09-23T19:18:19Z        0.0      0.625
4  Easier way imo is in the giants den with a zar...  @jakeparkinson9639  2024-09-23T16:32:56Z        0.0        0.0
5                                              First         @HeyItsVarn  2024-09-23T16:05:07Z        0.0        0.0
```

## Background
YouTube has been a primary source of information and entertainment in my house
for years now. Recently when looking at the comments of various videos, I've
noticed what I feel is strange behavior. However, I am not someone who regularly
engages with social media in that way, so this project is my attempt to
investigate and understand the behavior I see online.

The name 'Astro' was chosen as a short form of 'Astroturf', a term used to
describe artificial social movements, since I was initially working toward
identifying bot campaigns. I've since decided to restrict the scope of the
project (at least for now), since that goal will require much more research.

## Prerequisites
These packages are required in order to run this tool.

- YouTube Data API
Used for accessing YouTube data. Install with:
`pip install google-api-python-client`

- dotenv
Used for loading environment variables from a local .env file. Install with:
`pip insatll python-dotenv`

- pandas
Used for capturing YouTube data in dataframes (for now). Install with:
`pip install pandas`

- Natural Language Toolkit
Used for sentiment analysis of comments. Install with:
`pip insatll nltk`
